Ansible Community Steering Committee Doc & Guidelines (#42)
ansible/community-docs: steering_committee_guidelines.rst

> ***********************
> Steering Committee Doc
> ***********************
> 
> The Steering Committee’s role is to provide continuity, guidance, and
> suggestions to the Ansible, and to ensure delivery of the Ansible
> Community package. The Steering Committee should reflect the scope and
> breadth of the Ansible Community.
> 
> Committee Member Responsibilities:
> ==================================
> 
> 1. Design policies and procedures for the collections ecosystem.
> 2. Review content (collections for now) for compliance with the
>    policies.
> 3. Help create the community deliverables (community.general collection,
>    community.network collection, the ansible-tarball, community
>    documentation website).
> 4. Ballot on approval of new proposals and changes to policies.
> 5. Identify and train individuals from the community who are interested
>    in contributing to Ansible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Duplicates the other doc

participate fully for any reason, they can notify the other members and
step down.

Steering Committee members who resign and later become active again can
rejoin the Steering Committee the following year by following the
process for joining the Steering Committee.

In case of resignation, the member should create an issue in the
community-topics repository to inform the community that they plan to
step down, and when.

Involuntarily Leaving the Steering Committee:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Steering Committee member will be removed from the Committee if they:

1. Do not participate in community meetings for more than 3 months in a row.
2. Participate unreasonably irregularly (for example, once a month for several months). Unreasonability is defined by other steering committee members considering circumstances in each particular case.
3. Violate the Ansible Community Code of Conduct.

The removal process (in all cases except resignation) consists of the
following steps:

1. Another committee member creates an issue under the community-topics repository.
2. The issue will be discussed in a community meeting.
3. The committee members vote on the issue.

> Members:
> ========
> 
> The initial Steering Committee members, selected based on their wide
> knowledge of and active contributions to the Ansible project, are: 
> 
> 1.  Felix Fontein (felixfontein)
> 2.  Tadej Borovšak (tadeboro)
> 3.  James Cassell (cyberpear)
> 4.  John Barker (gundalow)
> 5.  Andrew Klychkov (andersson007_)
> 6.  Alicia Cozine (acozine)
> 7.  Sorin Sbarnea (zbr)
> 8.  Jill Rouleau (jillr)
> 9. Brad Thornton (cidrblock)
> 10. Dylan Silva (thaumos)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Duplicates the other doc

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*************************************************************************
Ansible Community Steering Committee Membership Guidelines
*************************************************************************
```
or something

below.

Voluntarily Leaving the Steering Committee:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Steering Committee member can resign. If they are not able to
participate fully for any reason, they can notify the other members and
step down.

Steering Committee members who resign and later become active again can
rejoin the Steering Committee by following the process for joining the Steering Committee.

In case of resignation, the member should create an issue in the
community-topics repository to inform the community that they plan to
step down and when.

Involuntarily Leaving the Steering Committee:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Steering Committee member will be removed from the Committee if they:

1. Do not participate in community meetings for more than 3 months in a row.
2. Participate unreasonably irregularly (for example, once a month for several months). Unreasonability is defined by other steering committee members considering circumstances in each particular case.
3. Violate the Ansible Community Code of Conduct.

The removal process (in all cases except resignation) consists of the
following steps:

> 1. Another committee member creates an issue topic under the community-topics repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Another committee member creates an issue topic under the `community-topics <https://github.com/ansible-community/community-topics>`_ repository.
```

2. The topic  will be discussed in the issue itself.
3. The committee members vote on the issue.

Chairperson:
============

Tadej Borovšak is elected as the chairperson for the year 2021-2022.

> The chairperson election will happen once a year, say, before/after an
> Ansible fest. In case when the current chairperson stepped down, the election happens immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chairperson election will happen once a year around the time of
Ansible fest. In case when the current chairperson stepped down, the election happens immediately.
```

The process of the election consist of the following steps:

-  Interested members who wouldn’t mind to be a chairperson will inform a
   person responsible for arranging the election about that.
-  Conduct anonymous voting somewhere.

> -  Announcement the result internally and publicly announce the elected candidate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Internally and publicly announce the elected candidate.
```

Expectations of a Committee Member:
===================================

As a steering committee member, you agree to:

1. Abide by the Ansible Community Code of Conduct.
2. Join and participate in weekly meetings and asynchronous discussions.
3. Not promote corporate or individual agenda during the decision making
   process.
4. Review other proposals and provide feedback.
5. Represent the needs of the community.
6. Engage with the community in a professional and positive manner.
7. Encourage community members to express their opinion.

Joining the Steering Committee:
===============================

Eligibility:
~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Have a wide knowledge of Ansible and its related projects.
2. Active Contributions to the Ansible project.
3. Voicing out opinions whenever necessary.

Process:
~~~~~~~~

1. Any community member may nominate someone/themselves for committee
   membership at any time.
2. Only the present Steering committee members may vote on selecting a
   new member.

> 3. Nominees must receive a majority vote from the present members to be

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by 'present'?

I think it might be better to define this in an async fashion right away, like every member needs to be made aware in advance of an application, which can then say be discussed for a certain amount of time, and then there's more time to cast votes. I have no idea what is a good timeframe for such votes, but I would suggest it should be at least a couple of weeks (say 2-3) between nomination and closing the vote, to avoid committee members to go on vacation and finding out when they return that suddenly there are 20 new members they never have heard of :)

Reviewer: I would suggest removing `present` for now, fix other minor logical / wording things, and merging the docs in their basic versions ASAP.
Then we could elaborate on different aspects of the committee by separate PRs (I'm planning to do it ASAP), i.e. PR per aspect. Otherwise, this will probably be never merged:)

A Steering Committee member can resign. If they are not able to
participate fully for any reason, they can notify the other members and
step down.

Steering Committee members who resign and later become active again can
rejoin the Steering Committee by following the process for joining the Steering Committee.

In case of resignation, the member should create an issue in the
community-topics repository to inform the community that they plan to
step down and when.

Involuntarily Leaving the Steering Committee:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Steering Committee member will be removed from the Committee if they:

1. Do not participate in community meetings for more than 3 months in a row.
2. Participate unreasonably irregularly (for example, once a month for several months). Unreasonability is defined by other steering committee members considering circumstances in each particular case.
3. Violate the Ansible Community Code of Conduct.

The removal process (in all cases except resignation) consists of the
following steps:

1. Another committee member creates an issue under the community-topics repository.
2. The issue will be discussed in a community meeting.

> 3. The committee members vote on the issue.

Reviewer 2: Again, I don't think we should define a new procedure based on meetings which no longer will be relevant.

Author: Make sense. Will modify it accordingly to async process.

Chairperson:
============

Tadej Borovšak is elected as the chairperson for the year 2021-2022.

The chairperson election will happen once a year, say, before/after an
Ansible fest. In case when the current chairperson stepped down, the election happens immediately.

The process of the election consist of the following steps:

> -  Interested members who wouldn’t mind to be a chairman will inform a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  Interested members who wouldn’t mind to be a chairperson will inform a
```

   person responsible for arranging the election about that.

> -  Conduct impersonalized voting somewhere.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be
```suggestion
-  Conduct anonymous voting somewhere.
```
?

-  Announcement the result internally.

> -  In a community meeting, publicly announce the elected candidate.

Reviewer 2: Again, that doesn't work without meetings :)

7. Encourage community members to express their opinion.

Joining the Steering Committee:
===============================

Eligibility:
~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Have a wide knowledge of Ansible and its related projects.
2. Active Contributions to the Ansible project.
3. Voicing out opinions whenever necessary.

Process:
~~~~~~~~

1. Any community member may nominate someone/themselves for committee
   membership at any time.
2. Only the present Steering committee members may vote on selecting a
   new member.
3. Nominees must receive a majority vote from the present members to be
   added to the Steering Committee.

Leaving the Steering Committee:
===============================

Steering Committee members can resign voluntarily or be removed by the
rest of the Steering Committee under certain circumstances, see details
below.

Voluntarily Leaving the Steering Committee:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Steering Committee member can resign. If they are not able to
participate fully for any reason, they can notify the other members and
step down.

Steering Committee members who resign and later become active again can

> rejoin the Steering Committee the following year by following the
> process for joining the Steering Committee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rejoin the Steering Committee by following the process for joining the Steering Committee.
```

In case of resignation, the member should create an issue in the
community-topics repository to inform the community that they plan to

> step down, and when.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
step down and when.
```
Not sure if it needs here.

Involuntarily Leaving the Steering Committee:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Steering Committee member will be removed from the Committee if they:

1. Do not participate in community meetings for more than 3 months in a row.
2. Participate unreasonably irregularly (for example, once a month for several months). Unreasonability is defined by other steering committee members considering circumstances in each particular case.
3. Violate the Ansible Community Code of Conduct.

The removal process (in all cases except resignation) consists of the
following steps:

1. Another committee member creates an issue under the community-topics repository.
2. The issue will be discussed in a community meeting.
3. The committee members vote on the issue.

Chairperson:
============

Tadej Borovšak is elected as the chairperson for the year 2021-2022.

The chairperson election will happen once a year, say, before/after an

> Ansible fest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible fest. In case when the current chairperson stepped down, the election happens immediately.
```
